So why is our background image not a real background image?
Well if we think back about what we did so far, we were able to position our elements along the x-axis
with left and right and along the y-axis with top and bottom.
Now as we can see right here, we also need a possibility to position our elements along the z-axis.
Now the great thing is that we can do this in CSS and for that we need a new property,
the so-called z-index.
Now before we apply the property, there are some important things we have to understand first. For that
let's go to our code and let's go to the package class right here because as I said, the z-axis position
can be changed by adding a z-index,
so that's the property we need.
This property has different values, by default
every element on our website has a value of auto-applied for the z-index, the auto value is equal
to zero.
If we don't change anything else but this is what you normally can assume, auto is equal to zero
and this zero now defines the starting point from a y-axis perspective for the elements on a website.
This means if you want to position an element above this package class, then you could simply apply a
z-index of one, of two, of 10, of 100,
it doesn't matter, if you want to position that element below this class,
then you can add -1, -100 and so on,
I think you saw the pattern.
But, here comes the but, adding z-index to elements which don't have any position property applied
and by that, I mean a position property with a value different from static, for these elements,
the z-index doesn't have any impact,
so I could add z-index 100 right here,
if I go back and reload the page, still the background image will be on top of all the other elements.
This means this default style for the elements without any position property is just there and it's important
to know that it's basically equal to zero
but if you want to change it, you have to apply the position property.
Now the good news is that we have an element, actually two elements, with the position property applied
and one will be the background image right here.
So let's get rid of the z-index right here on the package because it doesn't have any effect
and now we add the z-index right here to our image.
As I told you, the default value for the elements is zero
and as the background image should be behind these packages we have, so behind these default elements,
we could add -1 for example. If my logic was correct, then the background image should now be behind
these packages.
Let's go back and reload the page to see if this worked,
yes it did
and this makes sense right because now we said that the z-axis, so the z-axis value defined by the
z-index should be smaller than 1, -1 in our case,
therefore it should be displayed behind these packages. If we would add a z-index one though, right here
like that,
so we changed it for the background class again,
then we could see that the background image is again on top of our packages
and on top of the navigation bar, can you see it? If I add a z-index of 0 right here,
then the background image is on top of the packages.
This makes sense right
because with that, both have the same z-index but we learned already that by adding position fixed, the
element is taken out of the document flow and therefore displayed above the existing elements,
this is clear but why does the z-index of 0 lead to the situation that this navigation bar is displayed
on top of the background image
but adding a z-index of 1 or 100,
it doesn't matter in that case leads to a situation that the background image is on top of that nav
bar.
Well let's change it back to zero and think about the default value of the z-index for this background class
because it's the same as for the normal elements. The default value for this z-index is also auto
or zero
in that case and the same thing is also true for our navigation bar,
we can find the navigation bar right here in the shared.css file.
So here our main header has the position fixed declaration applied with a default z-index of auto
or zero.
This means if I would now change the z-index right here, let's say to 5 and at the same time apply a
z-index of six, so above five right here
and of course save both files and reload the page, you can see the background image is still on top of the
nav bar. If I would add z-index of 7,
so higher than the value applied for the packages and reload, it would be above it.
If we change it back to our default value which would be 0 for the packages and for the navigation
bar,
we can see that we have the default behavior.
So the z-index doesn't drive this behavior,
what drives this behavior though in case we have two positioned elements with the same z-index
is simply the order in the HTML file.
So if we go to our index.html file in the packages folder, we can see that the background is the first
element and after the background comes the header.
Therefore the header comes later in our code and therefore the header is displayed above our background,
it's as simple as that.
And with that we now understood the core concept of the z-index,
the only thing we have to do right now is of course to go back to the packages file and add a
z-index of -1 to position it behind our packages, like that
and as we can see, everything is still working
but as I said, with that we understood the core concept of changing the
z-axis position with a z-index. There is one other important concept, the stacking context. I will have a separate
video about that later in this module
but for the moment, let's just be happy with that
z-index and as we are so happy with it,
why don't we just take the chance and use our knowledge we have so far to also position and create a
badge right here? Because I said in the beginning of this module that I would like to have a recommended
badge,
so in this package right here.
Let's see how this works in the next video.